# 2017-07-16

Chair calls the meeting to order at 12:36PM. 

Approval of the agenda. 
Brian moves, seconded by rebecca. 

carries unanimously. 

Minutes 

one minor correction, to be emailed
tristan moves, seconded by seneca. 

the environment councillors made a report, touching on renovations and 
changes that they are looking to implement within the university. 

moving on to the executive reporst. Antonio is not present, but submitted
a written report. 

## VPI

Wellness committee: the committee is just 3 people internal to feds, continuing to 
connect with stakeholders on campus and not overstepping. They are aiming to 
ensure feds is doing the best they can to support students, reaching out to various 
university services to have more partnerships. Doing a critical analysis of 
wrap-up week and mental health week. 

One service (women's center) reached out about centralizing advocacy efforts. 
They are hoping to have the other 5 services that are a part of the pilot 
as well. 

Feds on tour didi not happen, mostly becuase the bpi wants to address how it happens
to make it more effective for all students, reaching out to satellite campus's and
societies to improve outreach. 

## VPOF

Has a number of things on the go. Report includes updates from June as well. 
Special bomber events were a success, seeing over 200 people go through the 
doors on average. 

Beerfest was a great success, students prefered that it was an relaxed evening
event instead of a day or night event. 

Greater push to make bomber more sustainable, improving environmental practises. 

All commercial services had some form of deal for wrap-up week, which students
appreciated. 

Wasabi and campus bubble are re-doing their menus, samples are available in 
the great hall. 

Action plans are still being developed, will be presented at the next meeting. 

Pharmacare plus, government has not released any new updates but feds is
continuing to monitor the situation. 

Budget committee was officially formed at the last Board meeting, budget is 
done and if just being finalized, to be presented at the next meeting. 

A councillor inquired what was meant by action planning, whether that was long
or short term. The VPOF responded that they were an annual plan to accomplish
their platform points, to provide strategy for accomplishing goals and to
provide students with transparency to hold them accountable.  

Seneca was elected as councillor, mathew as board, graham barnes as at-large. 

## VPED

Apologies for the lack of written report. 

Been getting some projects rolling. 

Unvieled a land-acknowledgement plaque, first public action in response to the
truth and reconciliation commission. There will be a report that goes to
the provosts committee on BLANK about further actions. 

Municipal affairs commissioner is starting a project on what transit and safety 
should look like on campus, and how that will integrate with the transit solution
in the rest of the regioin. 

Acadmic support has gotten a lot better, beefing up the back end to increase
capacity so teh commission can help more students with their grievances 

Coop fee review, feds has met twice with the university committee behind the review. 
they are creating a student advisory board that will be appointed to a year, 
made of at-large students. More information to come. 

OUSA priorities have been set, sexual violence prevention and response, data 
collection, open education (open materials, reduce costs), mental health funding, 
experiential education (includeing coop), and funding review. 

Advocan : indiginous students, mental health, international students, and 
the financial aid system. Would like to re-work the pot of aid money to make 
it more accessible. 

Course evaluations: For the last three years, a committee of senate has
been meeting to discuss how course evaluations happen. After these three years
they have submitted a report to the provost that was met with heavy opposition 
from faculty. Profs seem to think that student feedback isn't a valid way to 
judge teaching. Report will be going to senate soon, expecting it to be a lively
meeting. Senators will be meeting to talk through the report and ensure that
students are well informed to debate it on the sentate floor. The VPED can 
provide the report to councillors who are interested. 

A councillor asked a question about international tuition hikes, and whether that
was a federal concern. the vped responded that it was, and that the main concern
was (in addition to the high sticker price), is that it is very in-consistent
adn that students should have stable costs. Also what extra services do international
students get in exchange for the high sticker price, and how many services are inaccessible. 

## Special orders
none

## Unfinished business

## motion to ratify vaishnavy
## Be it resolved that Council ratifies Hannah Sesink as an at- large member of the Internal Administration Committee.
brian, seconded by tomson

carries unanimously. 

##  general orders
## discussion: fall reading break

AFter advocacy from VPED and a referendum of students, a pilot of a fall reading
break was started. It needs to be reviewed, and a committee was made to discuss it. 

Results were that people were generally disatisfied (all stakeholders). It seems
inevitable that we will get a 1 week break at some point, but we don't know how
that will look like. 

Question: 
Are you in support of a full week fall reading break, as a pilot? 
What are the things we should give up in order to maek that happen? 

First years of class of 2021 got kind of short changed on orientation, doesn't think 
we should cut any more into o-week. 

A councillor inquired about what other schools in the province do ?

McMaster pushed orientation earlier in the year. Some councillors expressed
support for that, but most schools don't go this route. 

Many schools start classes on wednesday, so cutting into o-week. 

We have more exam days than most schools (13 days are required by current policy). 
this is something that feds is currently investigating. 

Also we have 2-3 study days between classes and exams. Easy thing to get rid of. 

Housing doesn't want move-ins to happen earlier, but feds could advocate for that
moving forward. Hasn't gone well in the past due to how early planning starts 
for move in days. 

VPED doesn't recommend going the housing route since the timeline is a bit
tight right now. To have a week for 2018 we need a plan approved by
november 2017. 

The VPED expressed explicitly that they were looking to cut exam days and study
days. 

councillors expressed general approval, however a councillor expressed that
the lack of study days could stress students out more. A councillor expressed
that more study days might be more useful than a break mid-term.

When looking at a fall break students are in favour, adn the university 
is interested in having a fall break (for mental health reasons, as well as
for first years). If we are convinced that a November break is more useful,
we can advocate for that, but the admin is more interested in a mid-october 
break. 

In engineering, many students would like the break to happen after midterms 
as opposed to before. 

Problem is that thanksgiving provides a day off without us having to find 
another day to move. The admin will likely derail the convo if we try to add an
extra day to the convo. Admin, grads, faculty, and undergrads all need to agree. 

Options are really : sunday exams, and/or removing one study day

some councillors expressed interest in a larger break between terms as opposed
to a week off in the middle of the term. 

In terms of the purpose of the break, there is a conversation to make the week
more acadmic. The VPED would there ot be an explicit list on what the break
is a break from. What things should students be expected to still be doing 
(assignments, coop interviews, checking email, etc) during the break. 

The VPED took some in-person comments, but encouraged councillors ot email. 

A councillor expressed that coop interviews were totally unreasonable to happen
during a break, and that minor assignments over the break were fine, but there
should be no deadlines during or right when you return are problematic (since
services/assistance is not accessible during the break).  

Major differences between what grad students and undergrad studetns want from the
week. 

The VPED wrapped up that this was ongoing, adn to email him. He also would 
like everyoen to contact their societies and students about what they would
like fall breaks to look like, particularly what teh expection of students
should be over the break. 

## WNC (Waterloo Nanotechnology Conference) infor- mation session

the Speaker read out a blurb from the WNC. Attach to minutes here. 

A councillor asked about what kind of support Feds was giving WNC. They 
are pursuing funding through the internal funding committee. IF they 
are looking for more support they can reach out to the VPOF or VPI. 

## new business

Motion to appoint Antonio Clarke to the at-large seat on PPC and IAC. 
Brian, tomson seconded. 

carries unanimously. 

A councillor also inquired when EAC and GAAC would be meeting. Teh vped 
has been looking to make these committees more functional, as historically they
have been more of a token meeting. 

A proposal for changing them will go to the members of those committees before
going to other. 

A councillor inquired about the investigation into how general meetings funcion
and to support online voting. Some directors in the room gave a brief update
on the legal framework behind. They were encouraged to modify or write a policy
that council can approve on supporting online participation in general meetings. 

A councillor inquired about moving council meetings earlier on Sunday, or moved
to a different day. this is something that gets talked about 
frequently, and a discussion about meeting times ensued. 

The speaker will send out a poll to determine the best time and day to have meetings. 

It was expressed that mayve sure monthly meetings werent necessary. 

The discussion moved to whether or not we should have ean August meeting. 

the VPOF brought up that the budget would need to be approved, but council could
allow it's portion of the budget to be approved by board (councillors can providd
feedback on the budget in person or online). 

The VPOF will provide a session to allow councillors to ask questions in person

Brian moves that Council designate the power to approve it's portion of the budget
to Board, subject to it being brought back for information at the next meeting
of Council. 
seconded by tomson

carries unanimously. 
Jason noted abstain

Motion to task the Speaker to send out a doodle poll to select the meeting dates
for the fall. 
Brian, Jill. 

Carries unanimously. 

With the agenda exhausted and no other business. The speaker adjourned the meeting
at 1:53PM. 

